# Jet-I-U
As the population of the world continues to grow in size and in age; it remains vital to develop streamlined and affordable technologies to address the needs of those most in need of companionship and care. The elderly and visually impaired remain a significant and an ever-increasing segment of society, yet due to the cost of at-home health care, many of these individuals are unable to afford full-time caretakers to assist them in everyday tasks. Although the luxury of home care remains elusive to many due to the associated cost, social robots are an important and meaningful way to overcome this issue. The proposed research explores the combination of biomimicry and assistive technology with IoT and artificial intelligence (AI), by presenting an all-in-one social biomimetic assistive robot called the Jet-I-U. This device mimics the behavioral and physical characteristics of a pet scarlet macaw, to provide information and companionship to visually impaired and elderly individuals. The Jet-I-U emulates its morphology and movement through laser-cut features and various biomimetic components. The intelligence and behavioral characteristics of the macaw are modeled through the application of the Internet of Things (IoT), AI, and Machine Learning (ML). By utilizing platforms such as the NVIDIA Jetson Nano and leveraging IoT technologies, the Jet-I-U can assist the visually impaired and older adults in day-to-day tasks. Experimental analysis was performed to evaluate Jet-I-U’s performance based on several criteria, and the results demonstrated the adaptability and applicability of the proposed solution as a companion to visually impaired and older adults.
